# BoilerTradeCo

**Problem Statement**
Students at Purdue University currently face challenges in efficiently buying and selling commonly needed items within the large campus network. The lack of a dedicated platform that focuses on these issues has resulted in an unorganized system where students find themselves having to navigate through a myriad of different channels. Introducing a specialized website for students in West Lafayette can tailor these transactions, creating a consolidated space where students can easily find what they are looking for.

**Background Information**
Acquiring and disposing of furniture and other common items has always been a struggle expressed by college students, as most of the items they buy throughout the year are only intended for temporary purposes. When they no longer need the item, most students resort to throwing it out as they may not know anyone who could find a function for it. When in reality, it may be of use to one of the thousands of other students on campus. Our goal is to create a web application that addresses all of these issues by creating a common domain for said students to not only sell the items they no longer need but also give them a space to purchase niche items only college students may be looking for. Targeted users are students or faculty at Purdue who are interested in making money off items they no longer have use for and/or purchasing items in “good condition” rather than new ones to save money. These individuals at Purdue can be those who are usually moving out at the end of the year, switching between dorms or apartments, or graduating and wanting to sell their items away. Additionally, students can use BoilerTradeCo to sell any textbooks, iClickers, lab equipment, or other school supplies when students are done using these materials and would like to sell them for a cheaper price.
“Craigslist” is a platform that is designed for individuals to connect for a multitude of purposes that include: buying and selling used items, finding housing, or promoting local events. Similarly, “Facebook Marketplace” is a platform designed to allow users to buy or sell items within their local communities with their main form of communication being “Facebook Messenger” which is operated in-system. While our team acknowledges the fact that there are other platforms with a similar purpose to our application, like “Craigslist” and “Facebook Marketplace”, our application, BoilerTradeCo, distinguishes itself by being a channel solely dedicated to students at Purdue. This exclusive focus, by attaching the Purdue name, adds a layer of reliability and trust to each product as the platform is designed to connect students. Whereas, in a platform like “Craigslist”, students may be unsure about the origin of the product and would be less likely to trust the product exchange. When using BoilerTradeCo, users will be verified of their status as students at Purdue University, so when going through the process of purchasing an item, the seller has already been verified as a trustworthy source. This would address any concern a user may have on competing platforms providing a secure environment for all users. 
